README.md, before:

# Secura_Auth

Secura_Auth is an authentication web app built using the latest Next.js 14, MongoDB, and advanced data encryption techniques. We use cryptographic algorithms and robust security measures to ensure non-alien authentication, meaning we do not rely on third-party strategies such as Google or GitHub authentication. Various applications can be built on top of this authentication app, providing them with secure local authentication.

## Features

- **Secure Authentication**: Implementing industry-standard security measures to protect user accounts.
- **User Profiles**: Manage user profiles securely with customizable fields.
- **Password Management**: Secure storage and encryption of passwords.
- **Session Management**: Efficient session handling with built-in security mechanisms.

## Technologies Used

- **Next.js**: Framework for building React applications with server-side rendering.
- **React**: Frontend library for building user interfaces.
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime environment for server-side logic.
- **Express**: Web framework for Node.js for building APIs.
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL database for storing application data.

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/Secura_Auth.git
   cd Secura_Auth

2. **Install dependencies:**

   ```bash
   npm install

3. **Set up environment variables:**

Create a .env file in the root directory and add the following variables:

   ```bash
   # Example .env file

MONGODB_URI=<your_mongodb_uri>
TOKEN_SECRET=<token_secret>
DOMAIN=<your_domain> # like for port 3000 in local server: "http://localhost:3000"
# MAILTRAP #
MAILTRAP_USER=<your_mailtrap_userid>
MAILTRAP_PASSWORD=<your_mailtrap_password>
```

4. **Run the application:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

The application will be running at http://localhost:3000.

## Usage

- **User Registration:** Provide a secure registration process for new users.
- **Login:** Authenticate users securely using encrypted credentials.
- **Profile Management:** Allow users to update their profiles securely.
- **Session Handling:** Manage user sessions with secure token-based authentication.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1. **Fork** the repository.
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/new-feature`.
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add new feature'`.
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/new-feature`.
5. Submit a pull request.

## Acknowledgments

- Thanks to Hitesh Choudhary and ChatGPT(OpenAI) for inspiration and Help.

Commit message:

1. Changed the email sending function from server email to specific business email. Now users can receive verify or forgot password email. 2. Updated the readme.md and added link to hosted website.

README.md, after:

# Secura_Auth

Secura_Auth is an authentication web app built using the latest Next.js 14, MongoDB, and advanced data encryption techniques. We use cryptographic algorithms and robust security measures to ensure non-alien authentication, meaning we do not rely on third-party strategies such as Google or GitHub authentication. Various applications can be built on top of this authentication app, providing them with secure local authentication.

## Visit My Secura_Auth Website

You are warmly invited to try out my [Secura_Auth](https://secura-auth.vercel.app) yourself.  
Feel absolutely free to give any feedback.  
Visit at: https://secura-auth.vercel.app.

## Features

- **Secure Authentication**: Implementing industry-standard security measures to protect user accounts.
- **User Profiles**: Manage user profiles securely with customizable fields.
- **Password Management**: Secure storage and encryption of passwords.
- **Session Management**: Efficient session handling with built-in security mechanisms.

## Technologies Used

- **Next.js**: Framework for building React applications with server-side rendering.
- **React**: Frontend library for building user interfaces.
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime environment for server-side logic.
- **Express**: Web framework for Node.js for building APIs.
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL database for storing application data.

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/Secura_Auth.git
   cd Secura_Auth

2. **Install dependencies:**

   ```bash
   npm install

3. **Set up environment variables:**

Create a .env file in the root directory and add the following variables:

   ```bash
   # Example .env file

MONGODB_URI=<your_mongodb_uri>
TOKEN_SECRET=<token_secret>
DOMAIN=<your_domain> # like for port 3000 in local server: "http://localhost:3000"
# MAILTRAP #
MAILTRAP_USER=<your_mailtrap_userid>
MAILTRAP_PASSWORD=<your_mailtrap_password>
```

4. **Run the application:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

The application will be running at http://localhost:3000.

## Usage

- **User Registration:** Provide a secure registration process for new users.
- **Login:** Authenticate users securely using encrypted credentials.
- **Profile Management:** Allow users to update their profiles securely.
- **Session Handling:** Manage user sessions with secure token-based authentication.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1. **Fork** the repository.
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/new-feature`.
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add new feature'`.
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/new-feature`.
5. Submit a pull request.

## Acknowledgments

- Thanks to Hitesh Choudhary and ChatGPT(OpenAI) for inspiration and Help.
